Hi there. In this video,
we'll discuss
operating system, or
OS, hardening and why it's
essential to keep the
entire network secure.
The operating system is
the interface between computer
hardware and the user.
The OS is the first program
loaded when a computer turns on.
The OS acts as an intermediary
between software applications
and the computer hardware.
It's important to secure
the OS in each system
because one insecure OS can
lead to a whole network
being compromised.
There are many types of
operating systems, and they
all share similar security
hardening practices.
Let's talk about some of
those security hardening
practices that
are recommended to secure an OS.
Some OS hardening tasks
are performed at
regular intervals,
like updates,
backups, and keeping
an up-to-date list of devices
and authorized users.
Other tasks are performed only
once as part of preliminary
safety measures.
One example would be configuring
a device setting to fit a
secure encryption standard.
Let's begin with
OS hardening tasks
that are performed at
a regular interval,
such as patch installation,
also known as patch updates.
A patch update is a software
and operating system, or
OS, update that addresses
security vulnerabilities
within a program or product.
Now we'll discuss
patch updates provided
to the company by the
OS software vendor.
With patch updates,
the OS should
be upgraded to its
latest software version.
Sometimes patches are released
to fix a security
vulnerability in the software.
As soon as OS vendors publish
a patch and the
vulnerability fix,
malicious actors
know exactly where
the vulnerability
is in systems
running the out-of-date OS.
This is why it's important
for organizations to run
patch updates as soon
as they are released.
For example, my team
had to perform an
emergency patch to
address a recent vulnerability
found in a commonly used
programming library.
The library is used
almost everywhere,
so we had to quickly patch
most of our servers and
applications to fix
the vulnerability.
The newly updated OS should be
added to the baseline
configuration,
also called the baseline image.
A baseline configuration
is a documented set of
specifications within a system
that is used as a basis
for future builds,
releases, and updates.
For example, a
baseline may contain
a firewall rule with a list of
allowed and disallowed
network ports.
If a security team suspects
unusual activity
affecting the OS,
they can compare the
current configuration to
the baseline and make sure
that nothing has been changed.
Another hardening task
performed regularly is
hardware and software disposal.
This ensures that
all old hardware
is properly wiped
and disposed of.
It's also a good idea to delete
any unused software
applications since
some popular
programming languages
have known vulnerabilities.
Removing unused software
makes sure that there aren't
any unnecessary
vulnerabilities connected
with the programs that
the software uses.
The final OS hardening
technique that we'll
discuss is implementing a
strong password policy.
Strong password policies require
that passwords follow
specific rules.
For example, an
organization may set
a password policy that requires
a minimum of eight characters,
a capital letter, a
number, and a symbol.
To discourage malicious actors,
a password policy usually
states that a user
will lose access to
the network after entering
the wrong password a certain
number of times in a row.
Some systems also require
multi-factor
authentication, or MFA.
MFA is a security measure
which requires a user to
verify their identity in
two or more ways to access
a system or network.
Ways of identifying
yourself include
something you know,
like a password,
something you have
like an ID card,
or something unique about
you, like your fingerprint.
To review, OS hardening is
a set of procedures that
maintains OS security
and improves it.
Security measures like
access privileges and
password policies
frequently undergo
regular security checks
as part of OS hardening.
Coming up, we'll discuss
network hardening practices.